in the Western world today it was April
1st known as April Fool's Day but in
some parts of Asia it was the dawn of a
new era and some might say the dawn of a
new era instead
Japan's new era gets a name but no one
can agree on what it means that headline
comes from the New York Times so it must
be true
right in an email to reporters a
spokesman for the prime minister's
office wrote that interpreting rain law
as order and peace was quote/unquote not
the intended meaning well the symbol
itself
etymologically is a little bit menacing
and when we talk about etymology in
Chinese and I got a digress dimension
for some people in the audience here
modern Japanese is largely made up of
bits and pieces of broken Chinese so
it's Chinese for docume when you look at
the etymology of a Chinese word you're
often looking at a visual symbol rather
than a series of phonetic markings and
you can kind of squint with one eye and
stare at this and kind of sort of make
out that the bottom half of the symbol
originally was a person kneeling in
supplication believe it or not the
triangular symbol at the top of the
character indicates a mouth presumably
he removing an order rahmel giving a
command so there's a sense of an order
or a command a decree obedience and some
people regard this I don't know a little
bit a little bit menacing is the name
for the new era in in Japanese marking a
new emperor taking over the throne but
as I pointed out here at the bottom of
the screen in context it can also just
mean the season summer winter that sort
of thing and apparently it was just a
poetic sense of the start of a new
season that was the intended meaning but
you know the intended meaning is not
necessarily the only one that matters
here so leaving aside the New York Times
let's go to a much more reliable source
information people chatting about this
on Twitter the name of Japan's new
Imperial air
which comes as Emperor Akihito prepares
to abdicate has been revealed as raela
Prime Minister a Bey is set to explain
how the government arrived at this name
but the characters mean command / order
and peace so again you know does it
really mean command order and look that
the second half of the word in modern
Chinese just means and a nd is is the
most common use of it it's a conjunction
in the middle of of many many sentences
one of the first characters you learn
well under standard perspective but we
continue she balked at this character
but it does come from a poem in ancient
Japanese and in that poem in context
it's describing the scent of plum
blossoms travelling with the wind in
early spring summer replies I don't feel
good about this character the poem feels
out of place in the current situation
and these two symbols put together it
looks cold to me
so this to me is actually I mean it's
it's stated here really briefly but this
is actually a much more interesting and
subversive sort of complaint and this
person is replied to the same comment on
Twitter and so the issue is not the
meaning of the characters as correctly
written but if you add just two small
lines to the left this is the much more
commonly seen character in both Chinese
and Japanese meaning cold and then guess
what it problem isn't just cold but when
you put these characters together you
get lung huh and this doesn't just mean
cold Pease as in the opposite of cold
war but it now has a really ominous
political meaning especially when it's
describing a current era in Japanese
politics so that seems to have been a
possibility that the Japanese government
didn't consider or didn't take seriously
the association between these two
characters that are not identical but
one is going to remind the reader of the
other and one is more commonly using the
other so I don't know
at the very least this is an unfortunate
coincidence
Hannah Gould comments was to understand
the poetic etymology that it's not
really the etymology oh well she means
well
well Sanderson the poetic and emoji it
seems odd that the government would pick
the term given it's more familiar
bureaucratic if not authoritarian
overtones so mmm that she's mixed up
which side is the etymology the poetry
is the context they are pulling it from
where it just means the season the
etymology of looking at the character in
isolation is what has the authoritarian
overtones but look the fact that these
people are confused the fact that the
authors of the New York Times are
confused means there's something
confusing that means this line here to
be confused about so probably a poor
choice all right so this symbol comes
from yeah the name of the season month
of good fortune in the first stance of
the poem and it translates to the early
spring of good fortune
don't try to attach a context to it that
simply isn't there again I sympathize
but the problem is on the one hand
looking at the character in isolation
without the context and then secondly
this resemblance to the close similarity
to the other character meaning cold and
that has a uniquely awful meaning when
it's combined in this particular way in
a political context so interesting games
we play doesn't the collection of poetry
translate this term as good or excellent
and harmony I'm happy to go with
excellent harmony rather than peace
through order so I highlighted that
because I thought that was a really
interesting example of kind of over
interpreting the two characters taking
them apart and putting them back
together again and reading it as peace
through order but anyway this is April
Fool's Day April 1st 2019 and all around
the world people who speak Japanese
people who speak Chinese and people who
don't know either one are puzzling over
the symbolic and political significance
of Japan declaring the dawn of the new
era
[Music]